
1.	Please find out if there are line/lines that will never run in the following codes.

number = input('Please Enter a Number: ')
number = int(number)
if number < 100:
    print('Small')
elif number >= 100:
    print('Big')
else:
    print('Neither Small nor Big')

And


number = input('Please Enter a Number: ')
number = int(number)
if number < 100:
    print('Small')
elif number < 80:
    print('Smaller')
elif number < 50:
    print('Even Smaller')
else:
    print('An interesting number') 


2.	Write a program that asks the user for a positive number input.

•	Check if the input is a positive number and if so,
o	Check if the number is smaller than 10, 100 and 1000 respectively and print the number of digits the number has. (Single Digit, Double Digits, etc.)
o	If the number is greater than 1000, print ‘Lots of Digits’.
•	If the input is not a positive number, print an error message accordingly.
•	Put your code in a try/except block and print an error message if the user fails to enter a valid number.



3.	Write a program to print ‘Good Job’ if the user input is a multiple of 8 and ‘Try Again’ if not.  

4.	Write a program to calculate the electricity bill.

•	Ask the user to enter how many kilowatts of electricity they have used that month.
•	Calculate the bill according to the following criteria.
    o	The first 100 kilowatts are always free of charge.
    o	If up to and including 1,000 kws, the price is 10 cents per kw.
    o	If more than 1.000 kws, the price is 15 cents per kw (first 100 kws are still free).  
•	Print the bill amount with a message.


5.	Write a program to calculate the bonus amount of an employee.

•	Ask user for their yearly salary and years of service.
•	Calculate the bonus according to the following criteria.
    o	Up to and including 5 years is 3%
    o	Between 6 and 10 years is 5% 
    o	Over 10 years is 10%
•	Print the bonus amount with a message.


6.	Write a mini-calculator program that asks the user for two numbers and one of four mathematical operators (+,-, *, /) to print out the result with a message. If the user fails to enter one of the four operators, print out an error message.

Ex: First Number: 5			First Number: 5
    Second Number: 7        Second Number: 7
	Operation: *			Operation: division
	Result: 35				Please Enter a Valid Operator!


7.	Write a program for the HR department to calculate wages for prospective employees.

•	Ask the user for inputs of age, education level and years of experience of the employee.
    o	Make the user select one of the three education levels; Bachelor, Master’s or PhD by typing either B, M or P as the input.
•	Calculate the wage according to the following criteria.
    o	Between the ages 18 and 30, the wages are $1000 per week.
    o	Between the ages 31 and 60, the wages are $1200 per week.
    o	The wages increase per level of education; +10% for Bachelors, +20% for Master’s and +30% for PhD degrees.
    o	Over 10 years of experience is another %10 increase.
•	Print out the wages with a message. 


8.	Write a program that calculates a person’s body mass index (BMI). A person’s BMI is calculated with the formula below where weight is measured in pounds and height is measured in inches.

BMI = 703 * weight / height²

•	Ask the user to enter his or her weight and height, then print the user’s BMI with a message. 
•	Also print out a message indicating whether the person has optimal weight, is under optimal weight, or is over optimal weight according to the following criteria.
    o	A person’s weight is considered to be optimal if his or her BMI is between 18.5 and 25.
    o	If the BMI is less than 18.5, the person is considered to be under optimal weight.
    o	If the BMI value is greater than 25, the person is considered to be over optimal weight.

9.	Write a program for a company that sells peppermint bark in bulk. The price is $10 for a container. The company has a discount policy of 10% for orders of more than 50 containers and 20% for more than 100. 

•	Ask the user to enter the number of containers purchased.
•	Display with a message, the discount amount, and the total price according to the quantity of purchase.

‘Your total is 100 dollars today. You had a discount of 20 dollars.’


