CS-111 Intro Structured Programming
Activity 5 – Iteration


1. Write a program to calculate the sum of all odd numbers between 10 and 100 (use range function) 

Note: range() function in Python has the following syntax; range(start, stop, step). 
	If you need the numbers from 0 to another number, you just specify the ending point(not included), so range(6) gives you 0,1,2,3,4,5. 
	If you need a series of numbers within a range, you specify the starting and the ending point(not included), so range(2,6) gives you 2,3,4,5. 
	If you need the numbers within a range to increment according to a pattern instead of one-by-one, you specify the increment, so range(2,16,3) gives you 2,5,8,11,14. 
	You can use a for loop to go through each number and print them. 

Ex: 	for i in range(2,16,3) : 
     	    print(i) 

	Create a variable to show the sum of the numbers. 
	Construct a loop that iterates through all the numbers in the specified range. 
	Check the condition for each number inside the loop. 
	Add up the numbers. 



2. Convert the following while loop into a for loop using the range function. 

num = 6
while num <= 20 :
print(num * 5)
num = num + 2
3. A microorganism divides itself into two every 4 hours. Write a loop code to calculate the final number of microorganisms in 24 hours. 



4. While running on the treadmill at the gym, you burn 5.2 calories per minute. Construct a loop to print out the number of calories burned after each 6 minutes in an hour. 5. Write a Python program which iterates through the integers from 1 to 100. 

	For multiples of three print "Fizz" instead of the number. 
	For the multiples of five print "Buzz" instead of the number.
	For numbers which are multiples of both three and five print "FizzBuzz".
	Use continue statements to avoid printing both numbers and the words. 
6. Write a loop that calculates the total of the following series of numbers (fractions with different numerators and denominators): 

2/50+4/48+6/46+ …+50/2



7. Create the code for a guessing game.

	Import the random module to use random.randint() method which gives us a random integer.
	Have the user input for low and high limits for the random number. The syntax to specify a range for the random.randint() method is random.randint(x, y)
	Let the user know that they have only 10 chances to guess correctly!
	Create a while loop to get the guesses from the user and keep track of the number of guesses.
	Put a conditional statement to check whether the guess is right. Print out a message if it is and in how many tries.
	Add more conditional statements to inform the user whether his/her guess is higher or lower than the random number it the guess is not right.
	If the user exceeds 10 chances, inform them about the situation, give the correct answer, and wish them good luck next time. 
